This project explores the relationship between retirement status, demography, aging, health, and financial status.  

**Project Members**:    
Shusaku Asai, Ashley Hu, Yifeng Tang, Caihan Wang, Yiyang Zhang   

**Problem Description**:    
The rapid increase in the aging population has generated challenges to labor supply and socioeconomic sustainability across the globe (1, 2, 3). In the United States, individuals 65 years and older accounted for approximately 13% of the population in 2011. This percentage is expected to grow to 20% by 2050 (4). The aging population motivates the need to understand retirement and its economic and personal health impacts. Researchers have demonstrated differing relationships between retirement and health outcomes. Some systematic reviews have shown that retirement has a negative impact on health (8, 9) and becomes a risk factor for mortality (6, 7) while others demonstrate retirement has a beneficial effect on mental health (5) or no effect at all on cognition (10).  
Furthermore, since retirement marks when an individual leaves the workforce and loses a salary source, savings and assets are important. Systematic reviews explain that financial preparedness benefits retirement adjustment (11) and that wealth is associated with better health, while debt is associated with worse health (12, 13, 14). As the aging population in the US increases and its impacts on personal health, economic output, and healthcare systems continue, the need to understand healthy retirement and factors to minimize burden on the individual and society becomes imperative. This study seeks to further investigate the relationship between retirement status, demography, aging, health, and financial status. The two outcomes in this project are 1) retirement status and 2) total assets in US dollars.  
